# LITA-Final-Project-CustomerData
## Project Tiltle: Customer Segment For Subscription Service
### Project Overview
---
The  purpose of this project is to analyze customer data for a subscription service to identify segments and trends, understand customer behavior, track subscription types, and identify key trends in cancellations and renewals. By analyzing the various parameters in the data received, the goal is to gather sufficient insights to make reasonable decisions enabling us to tell compelling stories around the data. This analysis is centered around discovering the revenue trends, customer behavior, and subscription patterns across the various regions and also aids in identifying the key performance indicators from our data.

### Data Sources
---
The primary source of the Data used is Customer Data .xlxs. made available by LITA DATA ANALYSIS BOOTCAMP, an online training class.

### Data Collected
---
The data collected contains the following key columns needed to perform the analysis:
- Customer ID: Set of numbers giving to uniquely identify each customer
- Customer Name: the name of each customer
- Region: the specific location where customers reside to make transactions.
- Subscription type: preferred type of subscription by customers
- Subscription Start: the onset of subscription
- Subscription End: the time to which the subscription finished
- Canceled: whether the subscription was discontinued or not
- Revenue: the amount of money generated by subscriptions
- Subscription duration: the duration to which the subscription lasted

### Objectives
---
This project was designed to address the following analysis goal:
- Total customers  by Region: To determine the total number of customers from each region
- Revenue by Subscription Type: Determine the sum of revenue by subscription type
- Subscription Type by Region and customer ID: Determine the type of subscription from each region and the number of customers subscribing to it.
- Average subscription Duration by customer ID: to determine the average duration of subscription by each customer
- Number of canceled subscriptions  by region and  customerID: to determine the regions and customers who had canceled subscriptions.

### Key Performance Metrics
---
key metrics are quantifiable measurements relevant for tracking performance/progress and making informed decisions. The following metrics were used:
- Total Revenue
- Revenue: sum of revenue grouped by subscription type and regions
- Subscription Type: grouped by revenue and customer ID
- Average subscription Duration: grouped by customer id
- Subscription cancellations: number of canceled subscriptions grouped by region and customerID.

### Tools Used
---
- Microsoft Excel 
  1. For data cleaning 
  2. For analysis
  
- SQL Server
  1. For exploratory Data analysis
     
- Power BI
  1. For Data Analysis and DAX
  2. For data visualization

### Data Cleaning and Prepaions
---
At the initial phase the following actions were performed:
- Data loading and Inspection
- Handling missing variables
- Handling duplicate rows and columns
- Data cleaning and formatting

### Exploratory Data Analysis
---
This involved the exploration of the data to answer certain question  such as;
- What is  the total number of customers from each region?
- What is  the most popular subscription type by the number of customers? 
- Find customers who canceled their subscription within 6 months.
- What is  the average subscription duration for all customers? 
- Find customers with subscriptions longer than 12 months.
- What is the total revenue by subscription type?
- Find the top 3 regions by subscription cancellations.
- What is the total number of active and canceled subscriptions

### Formula Used
---
```Microsoft Excel
Subscription duration= DAYS(subscription end-subscription start)
```

```SQL
SELECT Region, COUNT(Distinct CustomerID) AS Number_of_Customers
FROM [dbo].[CustomerData 1] 
GROUP BY Region
ORDER BY 2 DESC

SELECT SubscriptionType, COUNT(Distinct CustomerID) AS Popular_Subscription FROM [dbo].[CustomerData 1]
Group by SubscriptionType

SELECT CustomerName
FROM [dbo].[CustomerData 1]
WHERE Canceled = 1
AND DATEDIFF(MONTH, SubscriptionStart, SubscriptionEnd) <= 6;

SELECT 
    AVG(DATEDIFF(DAY, SubscriptionStart, ISNULL(SubscriptionEnd, GETDATE()))) AS average_subscription_duration
FROM [dbo].[CustomerData 1]

SELECT 
    customerID,
  SubscriptionStart,
  SubscriptionEnd,
    DATEDIFF(MONTH, SubscriptionStart, ISNULL(SubscriptionEnd, GETDATE())) AS subscription_duration_months
FROM 
    [dbo].[CustomerData 1]
WHERE 
    DATEDIFF(MONTH, SubscriptionStart, ISNULL(SubscriptionEnd, GETDATE())) > 12

SELECT  SubscriptionType, SUM(Revenue) AS Total_Revenue
FROM [dbo].[CustomerData 1]
Group BY SubscriptionType
ORDER BY 2 DESC

SELECT TOP 3 
    Region,
    COUNT(*) AS cancellation_count
FROM 
    [dbo].[CustomerData 1]
WHERE 
    Canceled = 1
GROUP BY 
    Region
ORDER BY 
    cancellation_count DESC

SELECT 
    SUM(CASE WHEN Canceled = 0 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) AS total_active_subscriptions,
    SUM(CASE WHEN Canceled = 1 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END) AS total_cancelled_subscriptions
FROM 
   [dbo].[CustomerData 1] 
```

```Power BI
Average subscription Duration = AVERAGE(CustomerData[Subscription Duration])

CancellationsWithin6Months = CALCULATE(COUNTROWS(CustomerData),CustomerData[Canceled Value] = 1,
    DATEDIFF(CustomerData[SubscriptionStart], CustomerData[SubscriptionEnd], MONTH) <= 6)

Count of Subscription Cancellations = COUNTROWS(FILTER('CustomerData', 'CustomerData'[Canceled Value] = 1))

Total number of cancelled subscription = CALCULATE(COUNT(CustomerData[Canceled Value]), CustomerData[Canceled Value] = 1)

Total number of current subscription = CALCULATE(COUNT(CustomerData[Canceled Value]), CustomerData[Canceled Value] = 2)

DateTable = CALENDAR(MIN(CustomerData[SubscriptionStart]),MAX(CustomerData[SubscriptionEnd]))

Year = YEAR(DateTable[Date])
```
### Data Analysis, Visualization, and Insights
---











